https://employment.ucsd.edu/geographic-information-systems-analyst-127150/job/27529651?utm_source=jobing.com&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=CFE

DESCRIPTION

As a member of the Facilities and Services Information Management team, the Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Analyst conducts spatial analyses, coordinates with cross-functional teams to integrate GIS data into planning efforts, and supports decision-making processes. Uses GIS tools to help data analysis related to campus facilities, optimize space utilization, and support maintenance and development projects.

QUALIFICATIONS

Proven knowledge of the principles of geographic information science and GIS technology. Experience in the use of GIS software, particularly ArcGIS in its desktop and online forms.

Demonstrated experience using GIS technology to collect and update geospatial data.

Demonstrated ability to work with others from diverse backgrounds. Demonstrated professional integrity which assists in gaining the trust of others. Skill in establishing rapport and consensus.

Intermediate knowledge of related areas of IT. Proficiency in GIS software (e.g., ArcGIS, QGIS) and related technologies (e.g., Arcade, SQL). Basic knowledge of relational databases. Ability to provide basic support to GIS users and troubleshoot GIS-related issues.

Self-motivated and works independently and as part of a team. Able to learn effectively and meet deadlines. Demonstrates problem-solving skills. Ability to utilize GIS tools to troubleshoot issues and provide end-user support.

General knowledge of business and process analysis functions. Proficient skill identifying, analyzing, organizing, and documenting constituent process and data requirements.

Knowledge relating to software design . Understanding of GIS application development.

Demonstrated testing and test planning skills. Experience in documenting problems related to GIS tools and collaborative development of practical solutions.

Skills associated with analysis of processes and issues of moderate scope, information flow and architecture. Experience analyzing GIS datasets and developing clear, concise reports or business and process management improvement recommendations.

Demonstrated effective communication and interpersonal skills. Demonstrated ability to communicate technical information to technical and non-technical personnel at various levels in the organization. Interpersonal and communications skills to work with both technical and non-technical personnel at various levels in the organization. Outstanding interpersonal, verbal, and written communication abilities, allowing for effective communication in both one-on-one and group situations. Proficiency in conveying information through cartography.

Proven ability to develop and maintain online spatial data tools for non-GIS users.

Demonstrated ability to work independently and manage multiple projects and priorities.

Experience developing technical reference documentation.

Demonstrates competency and commitment to equity, diversity, and inclusion.

Ability to advocate and model the UCSD Principles of Community.

Demonstrated ability to provide training and support to end-users for online applications to promote effective usage.


Notes:
- Proven knowledge of the principles of geographic information science and GIS technology
- knowledge of related areas of IT
- porficiency in GIS software - ArcGIS, QGIS
- relational databases
- provide basic support to GIS users, end-user support
- troubleshoot GIS related issues
- knowledge of business and process analysis funcitons
- proficient skill identifying, analyzing, organizing, documenting constituent process & data requirements


